# antispy-jammer
Simple ultrasonic antispy voice recording jammer based on ARDUINO module and power output stage for driving piezzo ultrasonic transducers. It prevents from unauthorized human speech recording by hidden microphones and voice assistants.  
Initially ATTINY were used along with AD9833 programmable signal generator and audio amplifier PAM8403 / TPA3116D2 module driving piezo.  Using different Arduino boards like Raspberry Pi Pico RP2040-Zero, ESP8266/ESP32, Arduino Mini/Nano is also possible as long as they support hardware SPI connectivity.  
However current development is focused on RP2040 + MOSFET stage as it has better cost and jamming efficiency.

The project is based on following concept presented here : https://sandlab.cs.uchicago.edu/jammer/  , 
here https://github.com/y-x-c/wearable-microphone-jamming  
and here  http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~ravenben/publications/pdf/ultra-chi20.pdf , however my design evolved and using AD9833 and 25kHZ transducers is the only similarity with the original project.  

There are two versions of the jammer :

- Obsolete : version A with ATTINY85/Digispark only and audio amplifier TPA3116D2  + 20 transducers. This version is a bit audible and may not be preferred by some people. Less audible version is with TC4420 / IXDN614PI  ( NON INVERTING MOSFET driver chip ) + MOSFET IRFB4115 + transducer + coils. 
  
- Not further developed : version B with ATTINY85/Digispark (or RP2040/ESP8266/ESP32)  + AD9833 Signal Generator + audio amplifier TPA3116D2 ( XH-M542 ) / or MOSFET driver chip + 20 transducers + additional components like Coils and Mosfet. This version is barely audible and has outstanding jamming capability for newest mobile phones like iPhone. 

- version C with RP2040  +  MOSFET driver chip + MOSFET + 20-80 transducers + Coils. This is the latest revision which is barely audible and has outstanding jamming capability for newest mobile phones like iPhone. There are two revisions of this version - With single MOSFET + driver and with Full H-bridge and 4 MOSFETS + 2 MOSFET bridge drivers. The signal is enterily generated by PWM in RP2040 chip. 


Please notice that some audio amplifiers like TPA3110 do not work correctly with ultrasonic transducers (only some "clicking" sound and no ultrasound). So far I have found  only PAM8403 and TPA3116D2 modules to work properly. Anyway I finally recommend to use only ORIGINAL TPA3116D2 due to its audio power (watch out for fake XH-M542 boards!).
If using TPA3116 module to achieve better results please add resonant high power coils as a setup : one 3.3 miliHenr coil per each 4 transducers OR one  4.7 miliHenr coil per each 5 transducers OR one  6.8 miliHenr coil per each 6 transducers. 
Due to many fake Audio amplifier boards XH-M542 I am using now only following setup :  TC4420 ( mosfer driver chip ) + MOSFET IRF4115 + transducer + coils

Please keep in mind that ONLY 25KHz transducers and code are working properly for all types of microphones/devices. The 40KHz have very limited jamming capability and should not be used, however the source code for this frequency is available in the repo. 

History of Version A of the jammer :

At the beginning of this project ("main.c" and "main2.c" source files)  there was a set of resistors used to build 5-bit Digital to Analogue converter ( R-2R resistor ladder DAC : check here https://www.electronics-tutorials.ws/combination/r-2r-dac.html ) to create sinusoidal audio wave and audio amplification stage with 2 bipolar transistors (NPN+PNP bridge - class B amplifier) for driving piezzoelectric ultrasonic transducers : https://www.electronics-tutorials.ws/amplifier/amp_6.html (they introduce cross-over distortion  and have very small power). The Sinusoidal waveform parameters have been calculated using Libreoffice Calc / Microsoft Excell and can be changed to any other waveform if necessary.The C code was utilizing whole available PINs in ATTINY PORTB (PB0-PB4) to create DAC for sine wave or pulse wave depending on source code version.  I have uploaded this code here only for reference, maybe someone would like to play with it for different purposes than audio jamming.

However after testing first prototype  it turned out that the jamming power is too low because center frequency 25kHz has to be FM modulated in some manner. Finally I had to use PAM8403 amplifier module ( see diagram with "enhanced" version) for 6 Watt output power and modify lookup table and code to construct square audio wave with pseudo white-noise bias that modulates center frequency of ultrasonic transducers. In this version the 25kHz frequency is randomly shifted in 0,4 kHz offsets within 23-27 kHz range and that gives awesome results in jamming (up to 4-5 meters of jamming).  Please notice that even 6 Watt of audio power is too low to sucesfully jamm from greater distance so I ended up with using TPA3116D2 module - 100Watt audio power amplifier which seems to work the best with piezzo transducers after all.

Files "main4.c"/"main5.c"  are using Digital to Analog Converter for FM 25kHz signal modulation only , while files "main7.c"/"main8.c" are using random PWM and amplitude modulation to generate the noise (in test main7.c/main8.c work better than main4.c/main5.c files). 
If using files with AM modulation please tune signal gain using potentiometer not to get it distorted.
The microcontroller ATTINY13 has its fuses set to operate with 9,6MHz internal clock while ATTINY85 has fuses set to operate on 16MHz clock as in the Digispark module. 

File "main6.c" and its variants are more like version B of the jammer (used to miniaturize the jammer) however they require to use AVRGCC environment + USBASP programmer for ATTINY chip. The ATTINY85 chip is connected to AD9833 signal generator and further to TPA 3116 audio amplifier and set of transducers and coils. The ATTINY85 and AD9833 are powered from 5V through LM7805 while TPA3116 is powered directly from 12V or higher.  I do recommend this option since it has a better performance on jamming iPhones. 


History of version B of the jammer :

20.02.2022 - I have managed to re-create original design with only : ATTINY85 chip + AD9833 signal generator + PAM8403 audio amplifier and set of transducers.
The code "main6.c" and the script "compileattiny6" is prepared for this purpose, the diagram will be "arduino-mic-supresor-ultrasonic-v2-ATTINY85.png". 
Also relevant INO scripts and schematic of this re-created design are available for any other Arduino supporting SPI serial bus connectivity. For ARDUINO version please use diagrams "arduino-mic-supresor-ultrasonic-v2.png" and "arduino-mic-supresor-ultrasonic-v2-pro-mini.png"

27.01.2023 - Updated original programming - together with random FREQUENCY shifting I am also using random PHASE shifting which gives better effectivenes for high-end phones despite the signal is a little bit audible..  This is only valid for versions which use  AD9833 signal generator.

12.04.2023 - The code for Digispark/ATTINY85 + AD9833 + TPA3116/PAM8403 was changed to support INFRASOUND 5-25Hz random FM modulation over 25KHz ULTRASOUND carrier. This gives the best result for jamming iPhones and on the high-end phones and the signal is barely audible by human ear when demodulated on obstacles. However such approach cannot be introduced into the design which does not use AD9833 due to speed limitation of the ATTINY85 chip. If you want to jam iPhones I would suggest to use design : Digispark + AD9833 + TPA3116 + at least 12 transducers
The code uses SQUARE PULSE to generate the wave ( AD_SQUARE option in the code ) which gives best overall jamming result, but you can easily change it to less audible option SINUSOIDAL WAVE ( AD_SINE ) or TRIANGLE WAVE ( AD_TRIANGLE ). Sinusoidal signal has lower jamming capability but it is almost not audible at all.

24.08.2023 - The code for Digispark/ATTINY85 + AD9833 + TPA3116/PAM8403 was changed to use pseudo-number generator ( rand() function ) for infrasound 7Hz-15Hz and AD_SINE option on AD9833. The audio signal is now barely hearable but the device keeps good jamming efficiency.

17.09.2023 - The code for Digispark/ATTINY85 + AD9833 + TPA3116/PAM8403 was changed to use pseudo-number generator ( rand() function ) for both frequency swing 24000-26000 Hz and infrasound 5Hz-25Hz and AD_SINE option on AD9833. This code combines both types of jamming infrasound + white noise. However please find that random infrasound is good only for Android based phones, for iPhones the best is to use static 45-50Hz FM modulation of ultrasound (found empirically).

05.2024 - The code for ATTINY85 + AD9833 us using FM type modulation and swinging between 24-26 kHz. The frequency increases with SAW like steps with random CAP between 20-50Hz.  Additionaly there are hardware differences - using COILS and MOSFET IRF4115 for separating coils. Please notice that using coils, diode and MOSFET IRF is optional but may improve iPhone jamming capability.

08.2025 - added Raspberry Pi Pico RP2040-ZERO , ESP8266 WEMOS D1 MINI , ESP32C3 SUPER MINI + AD9833 module versions because of Digispark boards shortage on the market. Added connection diagrams for these modules.

11.2025 - added MOSFET DRIVER + MOSFET + COILS instead of using TPA3116D2 boards, added connection diagrams for this setup for newer boards ESP8266 WEMOS D1 MINI , ESP32C3 SUPER MINI , RP2040-ZERO 

03.2026 - added 18V Zener Diode 1N5355B between Gate/Source of the MOSFET IRFB4115. Mosfet IRFB4115 has only 20V of max allowed voltage Ugs. Now it should not break so fast. 


History of version C of the jammer :

04.2026 - added Raspberry RP2040 / RP2035 jammer version without AD9833 module. This boards uses perfect PWM that is built in within RP2040 chip to generate the same signal as AD9833 in previous versions. This reduces the cost and improves reliability of the device ( I found many chinese AD9833 modules poor quality ). Added KICAD DESIGN files + GERBER files for the PCB (PCBWAY / JLCPCB ).

06.2026 - added Raspberry RP2040 version with H-Bridge. This board uses PWM signal generation in RP2040 and 4 MOSFETS + 2 MOSFET drivers. The advantage is better iPhone jamming. The coil must be adjusted to the number of transducers and is connected in series with parallel set of transducers. Initial starting coil value is 47 MICROHENR for 20 transducers 20KHz. Added KICAD DESIGN files + GERBER files for the PCB (PCBWAY / JLCPCB ).

IF YOU WANT TO INCREASE JAMMING CAPABILITY YOU MUST USE  MOSFET DRIVER TC4420/IXDN614PI + MOSFET IRFB4115 + COILS   OR  H-BRIDGE MOSFET VERSION AND MORE TRANSDUCERS LIKE 60-80 PER AUDIO CHANNEL ! 




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

VERSION C

RP2040 chips  take over signal generation entirely with perfect PWM function. It improves stability of the solution and further reduces cost of manufacturing. This version operates only with MOSFET drivers and MOSFETs, there is no option to use audio amplifier board here. Use free software KICAD to see the schematic & PCB. The software can be flashed directly by dragging UF2 file to RP2040 USB disk drive ( RP2040 module  must have pressed BOOT key while attaching to the PC over USB). You do not even need Arduino environment to flash the SW.


Components used version C :


- 1 x Microcontroller ATTINY13 / ATTINY13A (not recommended) or ATTINY 85/45/25 (best), DIGISPARK board or any other Arduino with SPI interface support may be used instead of microcontroller ( RP2040-ZERO or WEMOS 8266 D1 MINI boards). ATTENTION - if using RP2040 board and PWM option you do not need to bud AD9833
- 1 x 47 microfarad electrolytic capacitor ( it can be 1 - 470uF - for blocking distortions on power lines)
- 1 x 100 nanofarad capacitor (it can be 47nf - 680nF - for blocking distortions on power lines)
- set of 25kHZ (resonance frequency is important !)  ultrasonic piezo transducers like NU25C16T-1, 25kHz or equivalent
- some power source 3 - 5,5 Volt (it may be LiPol battery or set of 3xAA batteries) or 12-24Volts depending on audio amplifier board selected
- Audio amplifier : 1 x PAM4803 : 2 x 3Watt Amplifier module ( instead of 2 bipolar transistors), but I recommend to use TPA3116D2 mono module  ( XH-M542 ) for 100Watt audio power. ATTENTION ! For some reason TPA3110 and TPA3118 modules do not work properly with transducers. Only TPA3116D2 is good
- LM7805 - 5V voltage stabilizer when using boards : RP2040, ESP32, ESP8266 or discrete ATTINY85 chip
- 1 x 10K Ohm potentiometer ( or resistor divider ) may be put between ATTINY85/ARDUINO/AD9833 audio output pins and audio amplifier board input pins (please notice that some audio amplifier board like XH-M542 already have potentiometer therefore it may not be needed) < optional >
- AD9833 signal generator board for version B of the jammer, ATTENTION ! there is NO AD9833 option but only for RP2040 board
- MOSFET IRF 4115 < optional > + MOSFET DRIVER TC4420/IXDN614PI + ZENER DIODE 18V - if no Audio amplifier TPA3116D2/PAM4803 used 
- Diodes for 2AMP or more ( 1N400X series)  < optional >
- 2 x 10K resistors 0.25Watt < optional >
- When using MOSFET+DRIVER must additionally use High Current coils ( depending on availability : one 3.3 miliHenr coil per each 4 transducers OR one  4.7 miliHenr coil per each 5 transducers OR one  6.8 miliHenr coil per each 6 transducers ) -  < optional >
- Remember to use 18V ZENER DIODE to protect MOSFET IRF4115 from electrostatic discharge (ESD) and overvoltage on Gate pin. 

The transducer set may be connected directly to the TPA3116D2 output or through the diode and IRF MOSFET. 

Version C:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


See the video showing how this device works :
- Old version : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YBQ7A4W0bTo   ( please do not use it , low jamming capability )
- New version for Arduino (and main4.c / main5.c for ATTINY) : https://youtu.be/JFtU2hQQ2vQ
- Re-created original version for Digispark : https://youtu.be/PcTkMWJb_Gs
- The newest version microphone jamming beast with TPA3116D2 audio amplifier board - jamms even iPhones : https://youtu.be/8RgoYlrgW4s
- The version that supports jamming iPhones is available here : https://youtu.be/nIupojN8bRk?si=n5qydTXHUljC6Rzw
- The version with MOSFET driver chip TC4420/IXDN614PI , MOSFET transistor IRF4115 and set of 4.7 MiliHenr coils : https://youtu.be/p5w_T1xVSF8
- 2 versions without AD9833 - single MOSFET+driver (working on older phones), full H-bridge 4 MOSFETs + 2 drivers (working on newer iPhones ) : https://youtu.be/84xKVirOIlM
  


